What is Recurring Buy?
Recurring Buy allows users to automate the buying of crypto. It is a dollar-cost averaging (DCA) investment strategy which allows users to choose the cryptocurrency they want to purchase, the amount they want to buy, and how often they would like to buy.
With Recurring Buy, users can save the hassle of making purchases manually over time by setting automatic cryptocurrency purchases.
How to use Recurring Buy?
Please refer to How to Use Recurring Buy for more information.
Types of Recurring Buy
Frequency
Plan Sign up Date
Selected Date of Purchase
First Purchase
Subsequent Recurring Purchases
Weekly	Monday	Tuesday	Tuesday of the current week	Selected day of the week
Tuesday	Monday	Monday of the subsequent week
Bi-weekly	Monday	Tuesday	Tuesday of the current week	Selected day of the week every 2 weeks
Tuesday	Monday	Monday 2 weeks later
Monthly	Monday (e.g. 20th)	Tuesday (e.g. 21st)	21st of the current month	Selected date (e.g. 20th) of every month
Tuesday (e.g. 21st)	Monday (e.g. 20th)	20th of the subsequent month
1. What payment methods does Recurring Buy support?
We currently accept Credit/Debit Card payments for Recurring Buy. Only Visa and Mastercard are supported.
2. What are the possible fees for Recurring Buy?
You might be charged a transaction fee when you purchase cryptocurrencies via Credit/Debit Card on Binance. Please contact your card issuer for more details.
3. How to add or remove cards for Recurring Buy?
Please refer to How to Use Recurring Buy for more information.
4. How to pause or stop my Recurring Buy plan?
Please refer to How to Use Recurring Buy for more information.
5. How many cards can I save on Recurring Buy?
You can save up to 5 Credit/Debit Cards for Recurring Buy. Only Visa and Mastercard Credit/Debit cards are supported.
Please note that if the Credit/Debit card you want to remove is linked to any of your existing Recurring Buy plans, you will be prompted to cancel the plan first before you can remove the card.
6. My Recurring Buy plan failed. What should I do?
If your purchase failed, you can choose to [Accept New Quotation] based on the new quotation shown on the page, or click [Cancel Payment] to cancel the order.